--- 
published: true
title: What is GitHub?
layout: post
author: Calvin

---
So I'm going through my first week of assignments and things are not coming as easily as possible. Is this the life of a developer? You find something interesting that you don't understand and discover it by a series of epiphanies? It certainly seems that way! I like it. It's a lot of problem solving and being on a mode of trying to figure out what is going on. It's such a different world. I recall watching this episode of Star Trek Voyager where a piece of technology from the 29th century falls into the hands of Ed Begley Junior in the 60's man. His character engineered them to become a technology mogul. I've often wondered if I had piece of futuristic technology what could I manage to do with it. Or if I went back in time and gave Thomas Edison an iPhone. Well I feel like learning to be a developer is like this and it's quite a journey of figuring out one little part at a time and putting it all together.

What is GitHub? GitHub is a website where developers create profiles that they can share the software they developed. A lot of it is open-source, meaning that you are free to use and modify their work for your own purposes. It has the ability to be a collaboration tool that makes sure that you are using the most recent version available. This way you have version control.

If you've ever worked in a group where you're trying to work on documents together, you know there is no perfect solution. I recall once writing a procedure for phlebotomy (blood drawing). So I created all the content and I wanted to make sure everything was correct before I started to change the formatting. So I sent out the document to all the laboratory managers to look over my work. After a week I started making formatting changes, moving one section elsewhere, changing fonts, and creating headers. Then I get an e-mail with my document edited and a manager saying "I made some changes!" UGH! So I had to go through the work tediously trying to find all the changes in new places and wasted 2 days making adjustments. This is bureaucracy! It's paganism if you ask me. Wouldn't it be great if there was a collaboration tool that managed these issues for us? If time was gold it would be worth its weight.

Well that's one of the benefits GitHub provides. It allows you to use the most recent version of a document available instead of a word doc you sent out a week ago. You can track changes and this allows version control.

GitHub is great for storing code because it has the latest version available. You can put a massive amount of information on there to be shared and it keeps an updated version for you to work on from anywhere.