--- 
published: true
title: It's time for Ruby, Classes
layout: post
author: Calvin

---
Essentially everything in Ruby is an object. This means in many ways that something is like an object in real life in that there are aspects to it that are observable, collectible, and modifiable. Say I'm in a woodworking shop. Every piece of wood has a length, width and height. It has a mass. Methods are like your tools in a way. You can circular_saw(plywood, 3 feet, 2 inches, 6 inches). In this way, our circular saw is in itself an object. Lets say our circular_saw method gives us a piece of wood. That is also an object.

What's great about working with objects is that they can be moved around. They can be used here and there and put with this and that. However, at times our software is going to be too elaborate and huge for us to have so many different areas.

So in our workshop analogy, our measurements for working with metal, clay, paint, and wood all vary. We're gonna have all different variables types, we can call these "classes."

Classes are great because we can pass variables in and around methods within a class.

So lets say we are making a program that calculates how many screws we need for a certain length of wood and metal. Keep in mind, we may want to have a whole bunch of methods for length and metal individually. So let us put those in their own classes.

{% highlight ruby linenos%}

  class Wood
    def initialize(length)
      @screws_per_foot = 12
      @length = length
    end

    def num_of_screws
      return @length * @screws_per_foot
    end
  end

  class Metal
     def initialize(length)
      @screws_per_foot = 24
      @length = length
    end

    def num_of_screws
      return @length * @screws_per_foot
    end
  end

  metal_screws = Metal.new(12)
  wood_screws = Wood.new(9)
  p metal_screws.num_of_screws + wood_screws.num_of_screws
{% endhighlight %}
*Here we have two classes for two different sets of calculations to show variables being passed within a class and will produce the total number of screws needed.*

So we see that we can have different classes for our wood and metal planks to have their own sets of constants like the number of screws needed per foot. We can then calculate based on their own lengths how many screws we will need. As we expand this it will be more valuable to have classes for our individual values.