- What did you learn about CSS padding, borders, and margin by doing this challenge?
	- I didn't use padding as much because I wanted to make sure that there was a set amount of space between objects, and with padding they would compound between objects. So for this challenge I used almost all margins. I learned that they are tremendously valuable for manipulating the way things appear, especially if I implement layers. 
	- Borders are tremendously useful for seeing how the shape of objects actually are and then I could just take them out later.
- What did you learn about CSS positioning?
	- I learned that there are so many ways to make things perform the way you want but everything requires the process to be thought through. Everything is affected by each other. You make a change and suddenly an object you made earlier is at the bottom of something else. They're all connected and pull from each other and these things take patient and experience to master.
- What aspects of your design did you find easiest to implement? What was most difficult?
	- The easiest was the sidebar because the elements could just sit on top of each other with a relative position and they would stack. The most difficult was trying to think of a way to hold the blog post in place with all the other elements around it. I realized that these things would be a lot easier if they were all part of a single <article> section instead of free parts of the body.
- What did you learn about adding and formatting elements with CSS in this challenge?
	- This was the most interesting aspect for me. Was that there were many ways to do things and there was the constant thought process in my head of what was the best way to do something especially considering that a blog can have hundreds of pages. So any change to styling we would want to affect every HTML. So good planning at the beginning is crucial. For example I have a navigation bar with Home Page, Projects, Blog and About Me. I wanted spaces between them I could have simply put 10 spaces between them but what if I want to make it 7 spaces later on? A better method was that I add in a CSS indentation object that I could modify.
	- I also learned that this takes way more time than one expects. Things didn't work the way I expected with the position types and the floats. I think becoming better with this will come with experience. I got carried away making the banner with layers and it was fun trying to figure out how to do it and hours passed away!